Document `fetchLater()` (#39016)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/fetchlater_api/fetchlater_quotas/index.md

---
title: fetchLater() quotas
slug: Web/API/fetchLater_API/fetchLater_quotas
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("fetchLater API")}}

> The overall quota for `fetchLater()` is 640KB per document and by default this is divided into 512KB for the top-level origin (including direct subframes using that origin), and 128KB for cross-origin subframes. Each cross-origin iframe gets an 8KB quota by default that is allocated at subframe creation time (whether `fetchLater()` will be used in that subframe or not). This means in general only the first 16 subframes can use `fetchLater()` as they will use up the 128KB quota.

Reviewer: - first 16 cross-origin subframes
-

> The overall quota for `fetchLater()` is 640KB per document and by default this is divided into 512KB for the top-level origin (including direct subframes using that origin), and 128KB for cross-origin subframes. Each cross-origin iframe gets an 8KB quota by default that is allocated at subframe creation time (whether `fetchLater()` will be used in that subframe or not). This means in general only the first 16 subframes can use `fetchLater()` as they will use up the 128KB quota.

Reviewer: "subframe creation time" is correct-ish but not exactly.
It's allocated when the document navigates its iframe. It can be either when the iframe is added to the document, when its `src` changes, or when its navigated by name using `target`.

So, for example, simply calling `const iframe = document.createElement("iframe"); iframe.src = "https://b.com"`
wouldn't allocate the quota, but `document.body.append(iframe)` would.

Author: Changed to "when the subframe is added to the DOM"

Out of the allocated quota for a document, only 64KB can be used concurrently for the same reporting origin (the request's URL's origin). This prevents a situation where particular third-party libraries would reserve quota opportunistically, before they have data to send.

> The top-level origin can also choose to allow selected cross-origin subframes to have an increased 64KB quota, taken out of the larger 512KB limit by listing those origins in the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch", "deferred-fetch")}} Permission Policy (e.g., `deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")`). Again this is allocated at subframe creation time, leaving less quota for the top-level origin.

Reviewer: Same about "creation time"

> The top-level origin can also choose to allow selected cross-origin subframes to have an increased 64KB quota, taken out of the larger 512KB limit by listing those origins in the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch", "deferred-fetch")}} Permission Policy (e.g., `deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")`). Again this is allocated at when the subframe is added to the DOM, leaving less quota for the top-level origin.

Author: There are two ways of including a third party script:

1. In a script tag embedded directly in the top-level document:

```html
<script src="https://www.thirdparty.com"></script>
```

In this case the script is part of the top-level document so is part of the 512KB and can beacon back a maximum of 64KB to `https://www.thirdparty.com` out of that 512 KB.

2. In a subframe (basically an iframe).

```html
<iframe src="https://www.thirdparty.com"></iframe>
```

In this case the script is NOT part of the top-level document so is part of the 128KB secondary quote, and can beacon back a maximum of 8KB to `https://www.thirdparty.com` out of that 128KB.

However, for that second case, we can "promote" the subframe to have the full 64KB it would have got if directly embedded in the document as a `<script>` tag by including it in the `deferred-fetch=(self "https://www.thirdparty.com")` Permission Policy.

Does that make more sense? If so I can look to try to include some of that explanation.

> The top-level origin can also choose to allow selected cross-origin subframes to have an increased 64KB quota, taken out of the larger 512KB limit by listing those origins in the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch", "deferred-fetch")}} Permission Policy (e.g., `deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")`). Again this is allocated at when the subframe is added to the DOM, leaving less quota for the top-level origin.

Author: OK I rewrote this section. PTAL.

> The top-level origin can also choose to allow selected cross-origin subframes to have an increased 64KB quota, taken out of the larger 512KB limit by listing those origins in the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch", "deferred-fetch")}} Permission Policy (e.g., `deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")`). Again this is allocated at when the subframe is added to the DOM, leaving less quota for the top-level origin.

Reviewer 2: This is much better now; I've suggested a few more edits, but now it makes a lot more sense.

The top-level origin can also revoke this entire 128KB default subframe quota and instead have the full 640KB quota for itself and any named `deferred-fetch` cross-origins. It does this by setting the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch-minimal", "deferred-fetch-minimal")}} Permission Policy to `()`.

> Subframes can only further delegate the full quota to further subframes but cannot allow new quotas nor delegate parts of it's quota to subframes. Take the example of `a.com` embedding an iframe of `b.com` which embeds an iframe of `c.com`. By default `c.com` has no quota, but `b.com` can delegate it's full 8KB quota to `c.com` through the use of the `deferred-fetch` Permission Policy.

Reviewer: it's => its

Reviewer: This is inaccurate. Subframes cannot delegate their minimal 8kb quota, only the full 64kb quota, and only if the nested origin is included in the original permissions policy.

Author: Fixed.

> Subframes allocated the increased 64KB quota can delegate the full 64KB quota to further subframes but cannot allow new quotas nor delegate only parts of the 64KB quota to subframes. Take the example of `a.com` embedding an iframe of `b.com` which embeds an iframe of `c.com` where `a.com` has a `deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com" "https://c.com")` Permission Policy. By default, as a subframe of a subframe, `c.com` has no quota, but `b.com` can delegate its full 64KB quota to `c.com` through the use of its own `deferred-fetch` Permission Policy of `deferred-fetch=(self "https://c.com")`. Further subframes must be included in the top-level `deferred-fetch` Permission Policy and 8KB minimal quotas cannot be delegated.

Author: I was trying to avoid multi-line examples, as to me they should go under the examples section.

WDYT? Is it worth trying to describe this in a (shorter) text way, and then move the example to the examples section?

> Subframes allocated the increased 64KB quota can delegate the full 64KB quota to further subframes but cannot allow new quotas nor delegate only parts of the 64KB quota to subframes. Take the example of `a.com` embedding an iframe of `b.com` which embeds an iframe of `c.com` where `a.com` has a `deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com" "https://c.com")` Permission Policy. By default, as a subframe of a subframe, `c.com` has no quota, but `b.com` can delegate its full 64KB quota to `c.com` through the use of its own `deferred-fetch` Permission Policy of `deferred-fetch=(self "https://c.com")`. Further subframes must be included in the top-level `deferred-fetch` Permission Policy and 8KB minimal quotas cannot be delegated.

Author: Rewrote this too. PTAL.

## Examples

### Using up the minimal quota

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")
```

1. A subframe of `b.com` receives 64KB upon creation, from the top-level's 512KB limit.
2. A subframe of `c.com` is not listed and so receives 8KB upon creation from the 128KB shared limit.

> 3. 15 more subframes of different origins would receive 8KB upon creation (similar to `c.com`).

Author: Actually the "different" is not correct. So let me accept your change with a twist:

```suggestion
3. 15 more subframes would each receive 8KB upon creation (similar to `c.com`).
```

4. The next subframe would not be greanted any quota.
5. One of the subrames is removed. Its deferred fetches are sent.
6. The next subframe would receive an 8KB quota again.

### Revoking the minimal quota altogether with exceptions

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=()
```

1. A subframe of `b.com` receives 64KB upon creation.
2. A subframe of `c.com` receives no quota upon creation.

> 3. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up to the full 640KB but that is reduced to 574KB if an `b.com` subframe is created.

Author: I think it's more "if" than "when".

```suggestion
3. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up to the full 640KB but that is reduced to 574KB if a `b.com` subframe is created (or even less if multiple `b.com` subframes are created, each of which will be allocated a 64KB quota).
```

1. A top-level frame of `a.com` has the default 512KB quota.
2. A subframe of `b.com` receives 8KB of the default shared quota.
3. The subframe `c.com` receives no quota.

### Granting the full quota to a further subframe

Assuming a top-level document on `a.com` which embeds an iframe of `b.com` which embeds and iframe of `c.com`, and no explicit top-level Permission Policy, but a Permission Policy of the following on `b.com`:

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=("https://c.com")
```

1. A top-level frame of `a.com` has the default 512KB quota.
2. A subframe of `b.com` receives 8KB of the default shared quota.
3. The subframe `b.com` delegates its full quota of 8KB to `c.com`. `b.com` cannot use `fetchLater()`.
4. The subframe `c.com` receives 8KB of quota.

### Redirects do not transfer quota

Assuming a top-level document on `a.com` which embeds an iframe of `b.com` which redirects to `c.com`, and no explicit top-level Permission Policies.

1. A top-level frame of `a.com` has the default 512KB quota.
2. A subframe of `b.com` receives 8KB of the default shared quota.
3. The 8KB is not transferred to `c.com` when `b.com` redirects to there, but the 8KB is not released.

> ### Redirects back to the top-level origin do allow use of the top-level origin

Author: I definitely meant "do" there. But reworded to make clearer:

```suggestion
### Redirects of subframes back to the top-level origin allow use of the top-level quota
```

---
title: fetchLater() quotas
slug: Web/API/fetchLater_API/fetchLater_quotas
page-type: guide
---

{{DefaultAPISidebar("fetchLater API")}}

> Deferred [`fetchLater()` API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetchLater_API) fetches are batched and sent once the tab is closed. At this point, there is no way for the user to abort them. To avoid situations where documents abuse this bandwidth to send unlimited amounts of data over the network the API sets quotas on how much data can be deferred to be sent later

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Deferred [`fetchLater()` API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetchLater_API) fetches are batched and sent once the tab is closed. At this point, there is no way for the user to abort them. To avoid situations where documents abuse this bandwidth to send unlimited amounts of data over the network the API sets quotas on how much data can be deferred to be sent later.
```

These quotas can be managed through {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch", "deferred-fetch")}} and {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch-minimal", "deferred-fetch-minimal")}} [Permissions Policy](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Guides/Permissions_Policy) directives.

## Overview

> The overall quota for `fetchLater()` is 640KB per document. By default, this is divided into 512KB top-level quota and a 128KB shared quota:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The overall quota for `fetchLater()` is 640KB per document. By default, this is divided into a 512KB top-level quota and a 128KB shared quota:
```

> - The 512KB top-level quota by default is for any `fetchLater()` requests made from the top-level document and also direct subframes using that origin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The 512KB top-level quota by default is for any `fetchLater()` requests made from the top-level document and direct subframes using that origin.
```

- The 128KB shared quota by default is for any `fetchLater()` requests made in cross-origin subframes.

> Note that `fetchLater()` requests can be made to any URLs and are not restricted to being made to the same origin as the document or the subframe, so it's important to differentiate between requests made in the top-level document content (whether to first-party or third-party origins) and those made in subframes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`fetchLater()` requests can be made to any URL and are not restricted to the same origin as the document or the subframe, so it's important to differentiate between requests made in the top-level document content (whether to first-party or third-party origins) and those made in subframes.
```

> For example, if a top-level `a.com` document includes a `<script>` that makes a `fetchLater()` request to `analytics.example.com, this request would be bound by the top-level 512KB limit. Alternatively, if the top-level document embeds an`<iframe>`with a source of`analytics.example.com`that makes a`fetchLater()` request, that request would be bound by the 128KB limit.

Author: ```suggestion
For example, if a top-level `a.com` document includes a `<script>` that makes a `fetchLater()` request to `analytics.example.com`, this request would be bound by the top-level 512KB limit. Alternatively, if the top-level document embeds an`<iframe>`with a source of`analytics.example.com`that makes a`fetchLater()` request, that request would be bound by the 128KB limit.
```

> For example, the top-level `a.com` document may include a `<script>` that makes a `fetchLater()` request to `analytics.example.com` and this would be bound by the top-level 512KB limit. Alternatively, it may embed a `<iframe>` with a source of `analytics.example.com` which may make `fetchLater()` requests, in which case it would by bound by the 128KB limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if a top-level `a.com` document includes a `<script>` that makes a `fetchLater()` request to `analytics.example.com, this request would be bound by the top-level 512KB limit. Alternatively, if the top-level document embeds an `<iframe>` with a source of `analytics.example.com` that makes a `fetchLater()` request, that request would be bound by the 128KB limit.
```

## Quota limits by reporting origin and subframe

Only 64KB of the top-level 512KB quota can be used concurrently for the same reporting origin (the request URL's origin). This prevents third-party libraries from reserving quota opportunistically before they have data to send.

Each cross-origin subframe gets an 8KB quota of the shared 128KB quota by default, allocated when the subframe is added to the DOM (whether `fetchLater()` will be used in that subframe or not). This means that, in general, only the first 16 cross-origin subframes added to a page can use `fetchLater()` as they will use up the 128KB quota.

> ## Increasing subframe quotas bt sharing the top-level quota

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Increasing subframe quotas by sharing the top-level quota
```

> The top-level origin can allow selected cross-origin subframes to have an increased 64KB quota, taken out of the larger 512KB limit by listing those origins in the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch", "deferred-fetch")}} Permissions Policy directive. This is allocated when the subframe is added to the DOM, leaving less quota for the top-level document and direct same-origin subframes. Multiple subdomains from he same origin can each get a 64KB quota.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The top-level origin can give selected cross-origin subframes an increased quota of 64KB, taking it out of the larger top-level 512KB limit. It does this by listing those origins in the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch", "deferred-fetch")}} Permissions Policy directive. This is allocated when the subframe is added to the DOM, leaving less quota for the top-level document and direct same-origin subframes. Multiple same-origin subdomains can each get a 64KB quota.
```

## Restricting the shared quota

> The top-level origin can also restrict the 128KB shared quota to named cross-origins by by setting the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch-minimal", "deferred-fetch-minimal")}} Permissions Policy. It can also revoke the entire 128KB default subframe quota and instead have the full 640KB quota for itself and any named `deferred-fetch` cross-origins by setting the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch-minimal", "deferred-fetch-minimal")}} Permissions Policy to `()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The top-level origin can also restrict the 128KB shared quota to named cross-origin subframes by listing those origins in the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch-minimal", "deferred-fetch-minimal")}} Permissions Policy. It can also revoke the entire 128KB default subframe quota and instead keep the full 640KB quota for itself and any named `deferred-fetch` cross-origins by setting the {{HTTPHeader("Permissions-Policy/deferred-fetch-minimal", "deferred-fetch-minimal")}} Permissions Policy to `()`.
```

## Delegating quotes to subframes of subframes

> By default subframes of subframes are not allocated a quota and so cannot use `fetchLater()`. Subframes allocated the increased 64KB quota can delegate the full 64KB quota to further subframes to use `fetchLater()` `deferred-fetch` Permissions Policy. They can only delegate their quota cannot allow new quotas nor delegate only parts of the 64KB quota to subframes. Subframes using the minimal 8KB quota cannot delegate quotas to subframes. For delegation, sub-subframes must be included in the both the top-level and the subframe `deferred-fetch` {{httpheader('Permissions-Policy')}} directives.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, subframes of subframes are not allocated a quota and so cannot use `fetchLater()`. Subframes allocated the increased 64KB quota can delegate the full 64KB quota to further subframes and allow them to use `fetchLater()` by setting their own `deferred-fetch` Permissions Policy. They can only delegate their full quota to further subframes, not parts of it, and cannot specify new quotas. Subframes using the minimal 8KB quota cannot delegate quotas to subframes. To be delegated quota, sub-subframes must be included in both the top-level and the subframe `deferred-fetch` {{httpheader('Permissions-Policy')}} directives.
```

## When quotas are exceeded

> When quotas are exceeded a `QuotaExceededError` is thrown when the {{domxref('Window.fetchLater()','fetchLater()')}} method is called to initiate the deferred request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When quotas are exceeded, a `QuotaExceededError` is thrown when the {{domxref('Window.fetchLater()','fetchLater()')}} method is called to initiate the deferred request.
```

Permissions Policy checks are not discernable from quota checks. Calling `fetchLater()` will throw a `QuotaExceededError` both if the quota is actually exceeded and if the quota was restricted for that origin via a Permissions Policy.

Callers of `fetchLater()` should be defensive and catch `QuotaExceededError` errors in almost all cases, especially if they embed third-party JavaScript.

## Examples

### Using up the minimal quota

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")
```

> 1. A subframe of `b.com` receives 64KB upon creation, from the top-level's 512KB limit.

Reviewer 2: I'm not going to comment on every instance, but in these examples, where you say something like "A subframe of `b.com`", you mean "An `<iframe>` in the top-level document that is embedding `b.com`", right?

In which case, I think it might be better to change the form of these to "A subframe containing `b.com`" or similar; otherwise, people might think you are saying "A subframe embedded inside `b.com`", i.e. a sub-sub-frame. 

What do you think?

Author: Well not sure what you mean by "An `<iframe>` in the top-level document that is embedding `b.com`" but what I mean is "An `<iframe>` in the top-level document that is has a `src` of  `b.com`".

Will change to that as think that's clearer. These examples were taken from the explainer and/or spec and are written in spec-lingo, but think we can make the examples clearer at least.

I'll still keep "subframe" in the main docs as iframes are the only subframes (`<object>`, `<embed>`, `<frames>` are also lesser-used subframes). But for examples we can use iframes.

Author: Updated in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/39016/commits/826f7f42c41c62c7835d1a382eba0c867c9eed63

### Revoking the minimal quota altogether with exceptions

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=()
```

1. A subframe of `b.com` receives 64KB upon creation.
2. A subframe of `c.com` receives no quota upon creation.
3. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up to the full 640KB but that is reduced to 574KB if a `b.com` subframe is created (or even less if multiple `b.com` subframes are created, each of which will be allocated a 64KB quota).

### Revoking the minimal quota altogether with no exceptions

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=()
```

1. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up the full 640KB.
2. Subframes are not allocated any quota and cannot use `fetchLater()`.

### Same-origin subframes share quota with the top-level and can delegate to subframes

Assuming a top-level document on `a.com`, which embeds a subframe of `a.com`, which embeds a subframe of `b.com`, and no explicit Permission Policies.

1. The top-level document of `a.com` has the default 512KB quota.
2. The subframe of `a.com` shares the 512KB quota.

> 3. The subframe `b.com` receives an 8KB quota.

Reviewer 2: Following on from the previous comment, in this instance, you should probably say something like "A sub-sub-frame containing `b.com`"?

Author: Updated in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/39016/commits/826f7f42c41c62c7835d1a382eba0c867c9eed63

Assuming a top-level document on `a.com`, which embeds a subframe of `b.com`, which embeds a subframe of `a.com`, and no explicit Permission Policies.

1. The top-level frame of `a.com` has the default 512KB quota.
2. The subframe of `b.com` shares the 8KB quota.
3. The subframe `a.com` receives no quota; even though this is same-origin with the top origin, it is separated by a cross-origin.

### Secondary subframes of subframes do not get quota by default

Assuming a top-level document on `a.com`, which embeds a subframe of `b.com`, which embeds a subframe of `c.com`, and no explicit Permission Policies.

1. The top-level frame of `a.com` has the default 512KB quota.
2. The subframe of `b.com` receives 8KB of the default shared quota.
3. The subframe `c.com` receives no quota.

### Granting the full quota to a further subframe

Assuming a top-level document on `a.com`, which embeds a subframe of `b.com`, which embeds a subframe of `c.com`.

Assuming that `a.com` has the following Permissions Policy:

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=("https://c.com" "https://c.com")
```

> Assuming that `b.com` has the following Permissions Policy:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And, assuming that `b.com` has the following Permissions Policy:
```

> Permissions Policy of the following on `b.com`:

Reviewer 2: duplicate line; remove?

Author: Removed.

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=()
```

1. `<iframe src="https://b.com/page">` receives 64KiB upon being added to the top-level document.
2. `<iframe src="https://c.com/page">` receives no quota upon being added to the top-level document.
3. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up to the full 640KiB but that is reduced to 574KiB if a `b.com` subframe is created (or even less if multiple `b.com` subframes are created, each of which will be allocated a 64KiB quota).

### Revoking the minimal quota altogether with no exceptions

```http
Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=()
```

1. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up the full 640KiB.
2. Subframes are not allocated any quota and cannot use `fetchLater()`.

### Same-origin subframes share quota with the top-level and can delegate to subframes

Assuming a top-level document on `a.com`, which embeds a subframe of `a.com`, which embeds a subframe of `b.com`, and no explicit Permission Policies.

1. The top-level document of `a.com` has the default 512KiB quota.

> 2. An iframe `<iframe src="https://a.com/embed">` shares the 512KiB quota upon being added to the top-level document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. `<iframe src="https://a.com/embed">` shares the 512KiB quota upon being added to the top-level document.
```

> 3. An iframe `<iframe src="https://b.com/embed">` receives an 8KiB quotaupon being added to the top-level document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. `<iframe src="https://b.com/embed">` receives an 8KiB quotaupon being added to the top-level document.
```
